Update usage.md (#237)
nf-core/rnafusion: docs/usage.md

The pipeline is divided into two parts:

1. Download and build references 
   - specified with `--build_references` parameter
  - required only once before running the pipeline
  - **Important**: rerun with each new release
2. Detecting fusions 
  - Supported tools: `arriba`, `fusioncatcher`, `pizzly`, `squid` and `starfusion`
  - QC: `Fastqc` and `MultiQC`
  - Fusion visualization: `arriba` (only arriba detected), `fusion-report` and `fusionInspector`

### 1. Download and build references

The rnafusion pipeline needs references for the fusion detection tools, so downloading these is a **requirement**.
Whilst it is possible to download and build each reference manually, it is advised to download references with the rnafusion pipeline.

First register for a free account at COSMIC at https://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/cosmic/register using your university email. The account is **only activated upon** clicking the link in the registration email.

Download the references as shown below including your COSMIC credentials. Note that this step can take up to 24 hours to complete.

```bash
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \

> --build_references --all \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
  --build_references --all \
  --genomes_base <PATH> \
```

--cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \

> --outdir <PATH> -r 2.0.0

Reviewer: Line to update with indentation and removing -r 2.0.0

```

References for each tools can also be downloaded separately with:

```bash
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
--build_references --<tool> \
--cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
--outdir <PATH> -r 2.0.0
```

> In the case of non-human references, that are not supported currently, these can be fed manually to rnafusion using the parameter `--<tool>_ref`. By default STAR-Fusion references are built. You can also download them from [CTAT](https://github.com/NCIP/Trinity_CTAT/wiki). This allows more flexibility for different organisms but be aware that this is not fully tested:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Optional:**
In the case of non-human references, that are not supported currently, these can be fed manually to rnafusion using the parameter `--<tool>_ref`. By default STAR-Fusion references are built. rnafusion also has an option to download the references from [CTAT](https://github.com/NCIP/Trinity_CTAT/wiki). This allows more flexibility for different organisms but be aware that **this is not fully tested and therefore not recommended**
```

```bash
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
--build_references --starfusion/--all \
--starfusion_build FALSE \
--cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
--outdir <PATH> -r 2.0.0
```

Then use the flag `--starfusion_build` while running the detection.

### 2. Detecting fusions

This step can either be run using all fusion detection tools or specifying individual tools. Visualisation tools will be run on all fusions detected. To run all tools (`arriba`, `fusioncatcher`, `pizzly`, `squid`, `starfusion`) use the `--all` parameter:

```bash
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
--all \
--input '[path to samplesheet csv]' \
--outdir <PATH> \
--genomes_base 'path to rnafusion references' \
-r 2.0.0
```

> Alternatively, to run only a specific detection tool specify with `--tool`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, to run only a specific detection tool specified with `--<tool>`:
```

```bash
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
--<tool> \
--input '[path to samplesheet file]' \
--outdir <PATH> \
```

#### Optional manual feed-in of fusion files

It is possible to give the output of each tool manually using the argument: `--<tool>_fusions PATH/TO/FUSION/FILE`: this feature need more testing, don't hesitate to open an issue if you encounter problems.

## Samplesheet input

> You will need to create a samplesheet with information about the samples you would like to analyse before running the pipeline. Use the `--input` parameter to specify its location. The pipeline will detect whether a sample is single- or paired-end from the samplesheet - the `fastq_2` column is empty for single-end. The samplesheet has to be a comma-separated file (.csv) but can have as many columns as you desire. There is a strict requirement for the first 4 columns to match those defined in the table below with the header row included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to create a samplesheet with information about the samples you would like to analyse before running the pipeline. Use the `--input` parameter to specify its location. It has to be a comma-separated file with 4 columns, and a header row as shown in the examples below.

```console
--input '[path to samplesheet file]'
```

### Multiple runs of the same sample

The `sample` identifiers have to be the same when you have re-sequenced the same sample more than once e.g. to increase sequencing depth. The pipeline will concatenate the raw reads before performing any downstream analysis. Below is an example for the same sample sequenced across 3 lanes:

```console
sample,fastq_1,fastq_2,strandedness
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R2_001.fastq.gz,forward
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R2_001.fastq.gz,forward
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R2_001.fastq.gz,forward
```

### Full samplesheet

The pipeline will auto-detect whether a sample is single- or paired-end using the information provided in the samplesheet. The samplesheet can have as many columns as you desire, however, there is a strict requirement for the first 4 columns to match those defined in the table below.

A final samplesheet file consisting of both single- and paired-end data may look something like the one below. This is for 6 samples, where `TREATMENT_REP3` has been sequenced twice.
```

The pipeline is divided into two parts:

1. Download and build references 
   - specified with `--build_references` parameter

>    - this is required only once before running the pipeline. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - required only once before running the pipeline
```

>    - It should be rerun after pipeline updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Important**: rerun with each new release
```

2. Detecting fusions 

>    - This uses any combination of the fusion tools: arriba, fusioncatcher, pizzly, squid, starfusion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Supported tools: `arriba`, `fusioncatcher`, `pizzly`, `squid` and `starfusion`
```

>    - QC is performed with: Fastqc and MultiQC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - QC: `Fastqc` and `MultiQC`
```

>    - Visualisation of fusions is performed with: arriba visualisation (for fusion detected by arriba only), fusion-report, fusionInspector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Fusion visualization: `arriba` (only arriba detected), `fusion-report` and `fusionInspector`
```

### 1. Download and build references

The rnafusion pipeline needs references for the fusion detection tools, so downloading these is a **requirement**.
Whilst it is possible to download and build each reference manually, it is advised to download references with the rnafusion pipeline.

> First register for a free account at COSMIC at https://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/cosmic/register using your university email ending .ac.uk. The account is only activated upon clicking the link in the registation email.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First register for a free account at COSMIC at https://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/cosmic/register using your university email. The account is **only activated upon** clicking the link in the registration email.
```

> Then run the pipeline, ensuring to include in the command line your COSMIC registration email and password as well as the path to the desired reference output directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download the references as shown below including your COSMIC credentials. Note that this step can take up to 24 hours to complete.
```

```bash

> nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
> --build_references --all \
> --cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
> --outdir <PATH> -r 2.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
  --build_references --all \
  --cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
  --outdir <PATH>
```

Reviewer: `--genomes_base` is needed to know where to write the references

```

> This step can take over 24 hours to complete.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

References for each tools can also be downloaded separately with:

```bash

> nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
> --build_references --<tool> \
> --cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
> --outdir <PATH> -r 2.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
  --build_references --<tool> \
  --cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
  --outdir <PATH>
```

```

In the case of non-human references, that are not supported currently, these can be fed manually to rnafusion using the parameter `--<tool>_ref`. By default STAR-Fusion references are built. You can also download them from [CTAT](https://github.com/NCIP/Trinity_CTAT/wiki). This allows more flexibility for different organisms but be aware that this is not fully tested:

```bash

> nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
> --build_references --starfusion/--all \
> --starfusion_build FALSE \
> --cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
> --outdir <PATH> -r 2.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
  --build_references --all \
  --starfusion_build FALSE \
  --cosmic_username <EMAIL> --cosmic_passwd <PASSWORD> \
  --outdir <REFERENCE_PATH>
```

```

Then use the flag `--starfusion_build` while running the detection.

### 2. Detecting fusions

> This step can either be run using all fusion detection tools or specifying individual tools. Visualisation tools will be run on all fusions detected. To run all tools (arriba, fusioncatcher, pizzly, squid, starfusion) use the `--all` parameter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This step can either be run using all fusion detection tools or specifying individual tools. Visualisation tools will be run on all fusions detected. To run all tools (`arriba`, `fusioncatcher`, `pizzly`, `squid`, `starfusion`) use the `--all` parameter:
```

```bash

> nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
> --all \
> --input '[path to samplesheet csv]' \
> --outdir <PATH> \
> --genomes_base 'path to rnafusion references' \
> -r 2.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
  --all \
  --input <SAMPLE_SHEET.CSV> \
  --outdir <PATH> \
  --genomes_base <REFERENCE_PATH>
```

```

Alternatively, to run only a specific detection tool specify with `--tool`:

```bash

> nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
> --<tool> \
> --input '[path to samplesheet file]' \
> --outdir <PATH> \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nextflow run nf-core/rnafusion \
  --<tool> \
  --input <SAMPLE_SHEET.CSV> \
  --outdir <PATH> \
  --genomes_base <REFERENCE_PATH>
```

```

#### Optional manual feed-in of fusion files

It is possible to give the output of each tool manually using the argument: `--<tool>_fusions PATH/TO/FUSION/FILE`: this feature need more testing, don't hesitate to open an issue if you encounter problems.

## Samplesheet input

> You will need to create a samplesheet with information about the samples you would like to analyse before running the pipeline. Use the `--input` parameter to specify its location. The pipeline will detect whether a sample is single- or paired-end from the samplesheet - the fastq_2 column is empty for single-end. The samplesheet has to be a comma-separated file (.csv) but can have as many columns as you desire. There is a strict requirement for the first 4 columns to match those defined in the table below with the header row included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to create a samplesheet with information about the samples you would like to analyse before running the pipeline. Use the `--input` parameter to specify its location. The pipeline will detect whether a sample is single- or paired-end from the samplesheet - the `fastq_2` column is empty for single-end. The samplesheet has to be a comma-separated file (.csv) but can have as many columns as you desire. There is a strict requirement for the first 4 columns to match those defined in the table below with the header row included.
```

TREATMENT_REP3,AEG588A6_S6_L004_R1_001.fastq.gz,,forward
```

> A final samplesheet file consisting of both single- and paired-end data may look something like the one below. This is for 6 samples, where `TREATMENT_REP3` has been sequenced twice.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

An [example samplesheet](../assets/samplesheet.csv) has been provided with the pipeline.

> As you can see above for multiple runs of the same sample, the `sample` name has to be the same when you have re-sequenced the same sample more than once e.g. to increase sequencing depth. The pipeline will concatenate the raw reads before performing any downstream analysis. Below is an example for the same sample sequenced across 3 lanes:
> 
> ```console
> sample,fastq_1,fastq_2
> CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R2_001.fastq.gz
> CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R2_001.fastq.gz
> CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R2_001.fastq.gz
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see above for multiple runs of the same sample, the `sample` name has to be the same when you have re-sequenced the same sample more than once e.g. to increase sequencing depth. The pipeline will concatenate the raw reads before performing any downstream analysis. Below is an example for the same sample sequenced across 3 lanes:

```console
sample,fastq_1,fastq_2,strandedness
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R2_001.fastq.gz,forward
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R2_001.fastq.gz,forward
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R2_001.fastq.gz,forward
```

```
